Minutes of the Meeting

Qazi Rashid Hamid, Abid Rafique

Dated: 10-02-2014

1.  1.Jaudat, lecturer at SEECs has joined as volunteer and he has two
    suggestions

    1.  a.A weekly/biweekly visit to the school by volunteer.

    2.  b.Every school should have a small library, which helps in
        establishing reading habits within students.

2.  2.A course ‘Student Thinking at the Core’ is being offered at
    coursera. “This course explores how teachers can capitalize on what
    students bring to the classroom - their ideas, perceptions, and
    misunderstandings - to advance the learning of all students in the
    class, a practice we call “leveraging student thinking”.
    [https](https://www.coursera.org/course/corethink)[://](https://www.coursera.org/course/corethink)[www](https://www.coursera.org/course/corethink)[.](https://www.coursera.org/course/corethink)[coursera](https://www.coursera.org/course/corethink)[.](https://www.coursera.org/course/corethink)[org](https://www.coursera.org/course/corethink)[/](https://www.coursera.org/course/corethink)[course](https://www.coursera.org/course/corethink)[/](https://www.coursera.org/course/corethink)[corethink](https://www.coursera.org/course/corethink).
    It will be valuable to take this course while generating content for
    the video library.

3.  3.I have explored Ted Ed, which contains many video lessons of
    varying difficulty.

    1.  a.The thing I liked is that Ted Ed has a tool that lets you take
        a video and add audio, slides or animation to it to make it in
        the form of a lesson. There is some excellent animation work
        that explains the concepts very well. Also there are videos that
        show how the animators actually created those animations which
        can help our animators in developing their own lessons.

    2.  b.There are many videos that can be dubbed into local languages
        or new videos can be created.

(Task: Write second episode of blog that shows where we are progressing)

1.  4.What should be next steps. Feedback needs to be gathered
    continually. tools for collecting feedback? At this stage we will
    collect the feedback manually.

2.  5.We need a website for this project. The website will host a
    database of content, links to content, contacts of contributors,
    tutorials for contributors and blog for the project.

3.  6.For website, Abid will talk to his cousin, Muhammad Nadeem, who is
    a web developer with over 1 year experience. (Task)

Minutes of the Meeting

Qazi Rashid Hamid, Abid Rafique

Dated: 11-02-2014

1.  1.We created a Kawish Facebook group

2.  2.We have explored a number of NGOs working in Pakistan in the field
    of education and we intend to complete a survey about their focus
    area and how we are going to be different than others.

1.  3.We chalked out a plan for our next blogs.

2.  4.We decided to explore similar online learning websites like
    TED-Ed.

###### Minutes of the Meeting:

Tauseef Ahmed Khan, Qazi Rashid Hamid, Abid Rafique.

1- To build a sustainable system, we cannot ignore the economic side.
The system cannot be purely ‘social’. This should be ‘socioeconomic’.
Also political side should be addressed.

2- There should be brainstorming on name. Name has importance. Until a
formal launch, things should not be publicly shared. So that a change of
name later does not create problems.

3- We need a roadmap to answer questions like: what is the progress?
which tasks have been addresses? which have not been addressed? A
complete map of organization like a corporate organization should be
created.

Brainstorm or have a session on structure of organization.

4- There should be a on-ground presence/existence of organization. We
could arrange some gathering, workshops, seminars.

5- Example of tracking system of mosque. Those people who have committed
to help, are reminded. The plan is carefully tracked. It should include
estimation of efforts, costs and budgeting.

6- We also need to focus on ‘Marketing’ aspects. People will join only
if platform is well known.

7- The monitoring/feedback/ should be collected, so that impact can be
calculated and shown to others.

8- A database of contributors needs to be built. We can keep track of
what members are contributing. What have they committed to contribute?
have they actually done what they committed? how do we remind them?.
What are the incentives or penalties.

9- How do we manage core team? what incentive should be there. Members
should be aware of the progress.

10- Since our team is distributed and it is difficult for all team
members of attend meeting at the same time, we need a flow diagram for
road map. We need a tool where the road map can be collaboratively
edited. All team members can submit their comments. All feedback should
be recorded. Some automated system should send updates to members. There
should be some voting system on each aspect of the system. The core
members should be able to vote on various aspects of system.

For example the core team reading the minutes of meeting could comment
on each point that came into discussion and each member of core team can
vote up or down each point.

11- Schedule a meeting with Sameen and summarise the current
understanding. Then ask the core team if the voting/comment system for
core team can be used/created.

Task: Search a tool suitable for our distributed collaboration (
Assigned to all members of core team). If you find a tool, inform all
team on Facebook or put information in minutes of meeting.

13- Is there any person from management background in core team? Tauseef
has management background, he can give suggestions but other members
might also be needed. Sameen might also have some idea about management.
Abid butt also have extensive experience but he might not be committed
to this project. Adnan Azfar has extensive program management
background.

14- Before implementation, we need to focus for 90 days of work on
producing a road map for program. Our target audience is not well aware
of the benefits of what we are doing. We need to put extra effort ,which
should be highly organized, to take the information to their doorstep
and help them.

15- Instead of focussing on website as the next task, we should focus on
producing a blueprint of organization and a road map for program launch.
Once we have a blue print, we can launch the website.

16- We can keep Kawish for public relations, but for our internal
organization and producing a solid plan, we might need to organize a
group that can work in the background.

17- Career counselling/advice for higher secondary school children.

Why only Engineering/Medicine?

18- Some point system for assigning points to members for their effort.
For members the points can be redeemed at later states.

19- career advice should be focussed on higher secondary level.

20- Should career be decided on passion or future career opportunities?

21- Should we provide a video library and leave it at that or should we
sent our front line representatives to schools that give demos to
students.

Convincing private schools may be easier than convincing government for
allowing this into public schools.

22- We need to define our objectives first. We need to compile a list of
objectives and ask the members of core team their opinion on which
objective should be followed and which objectives should be dropped.

23- Task: Action Item. creating a flow chart. Action owner. Tauseef
Ahmad ETA: 02/03/2014

23- Task: Action Item. Search and specify collaboration Tool Action
Owner: Qazi , Abid, ETA: 02/03/2014

Yasir Latif has suggested a tool for collaboration.
[https](https://trello.com/tour)[://](https://trello.com/tour)[trello](https://trello.com/tour)[.](https://trello.com/tour)[com](https://trello.com/tour)[/](https://trello.com/tour)[tour](https://trello.com/tour).
It seems nice.

Minutes of the Meeting

Qazi Rashid Hamid, Abid Rafique

Dated: 14-08-2015

1- For website we should use a CMS based solution that allows addition
of new content (lecture, animations) using plugins that are readily
available. If Abid can can get a layout of the website, it will be easy
for his brother to set up CMS and web server to serve the site.

2- For website, we can initially define 4 roles.

1.  A.Student: The student will have access to all public material in an
    easy to use content navigation system. The student should also be
    able to search content using keyword combinations.

2.  B.Teacher/Contributor: The teacher are those who will develop
    lessons and upload them. The teacher will need to login in order to
    submit a new lesson.

3.  C.Explorer/Linker: These are people mainly from core team/support
    who will search for content already available, assess its quality,
    sort it and link it so that it becomes available our kawish website.

4.  D.Administrator: admin will check the videos submitted by teachers
    to make sure that objectionable content does not appear in public
    domain on the website.

In addition we will need to perform routine maintenance. It should not
be too much work to maintain the site infrastructure and back end
programming.

3- Both Sabaq and Khan academy have excellent content. Khan academy has
also dubbed and subtitled its videos in Urdu so that also solves part of
the problem we were trying to address. Sabaq is more targeted at
syllabus of the schools at targets classes such as 9th, 10th, FA/FSc.
They sell subject based DVD for RS 300. They also make their videos
available for free online. Sabaq currently does not target lower
classes. Khan academy targets lower classes but their content is based
on U.S system. We might have to map it to the syllabus. So there is
still room for contribution for syllabus based lessons for lower/middle
classes. Also there is room for contribution of more varied lessons.
i.e. different teachers can convey concepts with differing degree of
effectiveness. So teachers who are willing to enhance quality of lesson
might like to record lessons on subjects for which the lesson are
available on Sabaq or Khan academy.

4- Another dimension of contribution to existing content is to record
lessons in more interesting ways, for example, animation. Both Sabaq and
Khan academy use a black board style of lecturing which is very good for
its purpose but if we do the same, perhaps it will be duplication of
effort without much benefit. What we can do differently is to encourage
our teachers to record lessons as dynamic animations. There are many
kinds of animations and we can guide teachers about different types
there are avaialbe and what tools are available for each.

5- Suppose we have built the library with a reasonable coverage of
content, how do we deliver it. Cleary for those people, who can access
the internet, problem of delivery is trivial. (It might not be trivial
in all cases, for example, youtube cannot be currently accessed from
Pakistan, and many of our videos will be hosted there). The challenging
part of delivery is to those students who do not have such means to be
able to watch videos online at their own will and time. For such
students, we need to find a system of delivery of video library.

6- How do we deliver? The best potential approach will be involve
government and do it through schools. The schools are delivered a set of
DVDs. The teachers can play videos from it as supplementary material to
their lectures. Students should be allowed to make copies of those DVDs
to watch at home and share those with their friends. Also groups of
students should be encouraged to watch lessons together to enable those
students who do not have computers to watch lesson with those who have
them.

The other alternatives is to deliver through social movement. For
example, Person A gets the DVDs, copies to disk and then gives copies to
his friends/classmates. This method may not be as effective as the one
through schools, but it avoids bearucracy and also puts the library
directly in hands of those for whom it is meant. We can use the two
methods in parallel to maximize effectiveness.

7- As part of pilot project, we will do the following.

1.  A.get a set of DVDs from Sabaq. . download urdu dubbed vidoes of
    Khan academy and put those to DVDs. ( Make sure that we inform Sabaq
    adminstration that we will copy these DVDs and might distribute to
    others for free.

2.  B.Make 10 copies of each DVD thus getting 10 sets.

3.  C.Deliver to 10 school one set of DVDs each. Get confidence of
    school teachers/adminstration and inform the students of the
    availability of conent for watching and copying.

4.  D.Get feedback? Are some students using it? do they find it
    interesting? does it help them?

8- If the pilot is successful we can ask the government to distribute
DVDs to schools that we are not able to reach.

9- Approximate cost of this operation should be around 10000 pkr which
Qazi and Abid can easily manage to pay. So there does not seem any
problem.

10 task: update blog:

Two streams of effort: 1- Website to collect content, animated lessons.

2- Pilot delivery project.

11- Project documents will be maintained using github. Gdrive is ok for
maintaining documents but if a document is edited it is difficult to
find which part was edited and when. So people cannot keep track of
progress. Github will allow us to use git logs. Pulling periodically
from git repository will allow everyone to see what has changed since
they last had a look at things. It will also allow contributors to work
in their private repositories and update the project when they like.


